So in the last lecture we took a quick look on how WordPress manages images. And then we mentioned
that we may need to add some custom sizes other than the sizes that WordPress provides by default.
Right?
And to do that WordPress provides a function called add_image_size().
So let's first take a look at the documentation for this function.
So the add_image_size() function; it takes a "name" for the image.
So we have "large", "medium" and so on. And here we can choose our own name for the image size.
And it takes the "width" and the "height". And it also takes "crop".
And this is a boolean or an array and it will decide if the image will be cropped and how exactly it will
be cropped.
So to use this function we should call it inside the theme-support action. So let's go to theme-support.
And we should call it actually inside the after theme set up actions. So let's call it now.
Let's add_image_size() and the name should also be prefixed.
So let's call it "_themename-".
And let's use the image size that we will create in our blog.
So maybe we can call it "blog-image" or something. So let's say we want an image of a width of 1200 and
a height of 500.
So the "crop" is defaulted to "false".
So if you did not define the crop the new custom size will have a maximum width of 1200
and a maximum height of 500, but it won't be cropped it will be just scaled, right?
But let's now try and set the crop to "true". Let's copy the name of the size.
And when you call this function instead of medium, let's get the size that we've just created.
Let's take a look now.
And let's inspect or actually let's instead of this function, let's get the URL.
And as you can see it returns to the original image.
There is no size here after the image.
And the reason is when you define new custom image sizes they will only get applied to images that
you will upload in the future. Images that had already exist in the media will not be resized
if you add in your custom size, right? And same thing applies to when you, if you change the sizes here
that won't change the sizes of the images already in the media.
It will also apply to images that you will create in the future.
There is a solution for this problem.
But before taking a look at the solution, let's add a new image.
And let's upload an image. And let's see the ID for the image.
And give this to the function instead.
So this is a newly uploaded image. So it should have the new size.
And as you can see we have an image that is 1200x500.
Let's now go back and let's remove the URL.
We need to see the image source.
And if you look a look now it's not a responsive image anymore.
So we will explain why this happens in more details in another lecture.
But briefly how responsive images work is about choosing between different image sizes.
But now that you have chosen to crop your image to a certain size, there will no be other sizes to choose
from.
All right? So if you confuse by this we will explain more later don't worry.
But generally I don't recommend using the crop attribute when you define a custom image. If you want
the images in your theme to have a certain aspect ratio,
I recommend you instruct the users to use images with certain aspect ratio instead of just cropping their
images to a certain size. So let's remove this or actually before we remove it.
If you want to crop an image you can also choose how to crop it.
So by default is cropped from the center, but you can define. Instead of defining the crop as a boolean
you can define it as an array.
So we have an example here.
So array and then you can decide where do you want to start cropping from the left up or from the bottom
right or stuff like that.
So let's remove now the crop.
So what we have right now means that the image that we will resize will not exceed 1200 in width and
will not exceed 500 in height.
So let's say we have a long image, an image with a width of let's say 100 pixels and the height of 600 pixels. When
you resizing using the settings, it will be resized so that the height won't exceed 500. And then the width will
be calculated to maintain the aspect ratio.
Right?
And same if you have a wide image.
So an image with let's say a width of 1400 and the height of 400 let's say, it will be resized
so that the width is
1200 and the height will be calculated to maintain the aspect ratio. But let's say for the
vertical image, the long one, so the width is 100 and the height is 600.
We want to keep it as it is.
We don't need to resize it.
We don't want to resize an image based on the height.
So if we set this to 0 the image will be forced to not have a width wider than 1200.
But now the height will not be regarded.
Right?
So if we have an image of 100 pixels in width x 1200 pixels in height,
it will not be resized as long its width does not exceed the 1200.
So I hope this makes sense to you.
So let's say we need to do that we need to only resize an image if its width is larger than 1200. So let's save.
And let's use this new size in our blog.
So I'm gonna copy the name and then we'll have to go to template-parts and post and content. And change
this from "large" to our new size. And we'll have to do the same for all the post formats.
So I'm gonna do it and I'm gonna probably skip this in the video.
So I'm done now we have the post thumbnail in the
content-audio
and the gallery
and the video and the normal content.
And I changed the large post thumbnail to our new sites in all of these.
Let's take a look now.
And as we mentioned, let's remove this image now.
So as we mentioned this won't make any difference and that's because the new image size will not apply to
the old images.
I just want to inspect one of these. And I want to take a look at the "srcset" attribute.
And even if you don't know what this means yet just take a look at the sizes of the images.
So we have the original image,
this one and then we have the medium 300 and then we have the medium_large and then we have the large.
Right?
So let's now go to Plugins. And let's say we need to loop through these images the old ones and check
if we have new image sizes in our theme. And resize all of these images to the new sizes if new sizes are
found. So to do that
there is a very famous plugin called Regenerate Thumbnails. So let's add new plugin. And let's search for
"regenerate" and it's this one. So let's install it.
And let's activate.
And now let's go to Tools and then Regenerate Thumbnails.
And then all we have to do is to just click on one of these buttons.
So this one will
regenerate thumbnails for all your images and will regenerate only for featured images for your posts.
But let's do all of them.
And it's actually pretty fast.
So it's done now.
Let's take a look now at this image. Let's refresh.
And now in the "srcset" in the sizes, we have a new size 1200 that we did not have before.
Right?
And let's also to make sure.
Let's go to the wp-content and uploads and now we have for each image a new size, right?
So let's in the next lecture
let's understand what is this responsive image thing.
So see you in the next lecture.